---
layout: homepage
---
<h2 class="h2-color" style="margin-bottom:4px;"> About Me</h2>
<p class="par-color" style="text-align: justify">I design and build scaleable, distributed and production ready software solutions that provides solutions to real world problems for millions of users. I can manage and work with cross functional teams.
<br><br>
I actively participate in research for new products and methodologies to improve the quality and performance of our software solutions.
 </p>

<h2 class="h2-color" style="margin-bottom:4px"> Research Interests </h2>

<ul>
  <li class="par-color">Software Engineering</li>
  <li class="par-color">Human Computer Interaction</li>
  <li class="par-color">High Performance Computing</li>
    

  
 
  
</ul>

<h2 class="h2-color"  style="margin-bottom:4px">Professional Experience</h2>
<h3 class="h2-color" style="margin-bottom:4px">Senior Software Engineer, bKash ltd. [Jan'23 to Present]</h3>
<p class="par-color" style="margin-bottom:8px; text-align: justify;">At bKash, I worked on several key products. One of my primary focuses is the 'Pay Bill' service, one of the most heavily trafficked services. I converted several modules of pay bill service to reactive Java implementation to enhance its performance and capacity while using the same resource.</p>
<p class="par-color" style="margin-bottom:8px; text-align: justify;">
Furthermore, I worked on the Identity Management System, the path to a more streamlined and user-friendly experience, and helped introduce a new method of signing up as a customer. I have also completed a  prototype for generating PDFs most recently. This new approach boasts a remarkable 10-fold increase in speed, all while utilizing the same resources as the previous method. It will help us to reduce the time for blocking IO operations and create a smoother user experience.</p>
<p class="par-color" style="text-align: justify;">
Additionally, recognizing the need for a more tailored solution, I took the initiative to create an in-house adapter for development purposes. This adapter allowed us to exercise greater control over the development process and provided a cost-effective alternative to third-party services. I also actively helped with taking interviews and hiring.</p>



<h3 class="h2-color" style="margin-bottom:4px">Lead Backend Engineer, Hash Solution Ltd. [Jan'23 to July'23]</h3>
<p class="par-color" style="margin-bottom:8px; text-align: justify;">At Hash Solutions, I led the design of the backend microservices architecture, both web and hosted services. From there, I built the core backend service interfaces for inter-service communication and shared functionalities.</p>
<p class="par-color" style="margin-bottom:8px; text-align: justify;">
Additionally, I  developed the core authentication and authorization module to protect the services from unwanted access. I created a dashboard module for the admin to support customers and configure the software. I also integrated Stripe as a payment method, which offers a smooth user experience.</p>
<p class="par-color" style="text-align: justify;">
In addition to my technical contributions, I led a backend team and regularly conducted sprint planning, code reviews, and internal technical troubleshooting. Aside from that, I took an active role in the hiring process and training the new joiners.</p>




<h3 class="h2-color"  style="margin-bottom:4px;">Software Engineer, SELISE Digital Platforms. [Aug'19 to Dec'22]</h3> 
<p class="par-color" style="margin-bottom:8px; text-align: justify;">At SELISE, I was a full-stack software developer. I built reusable front-end modules and updated several projects to the latest release of the end framework. I developed a distributed computing for a client's heavily loaded matching algorithm to improve performance. Additionally, I served as an internal technical consultant for cross-team projects.</p>
<p class="par-color" style="margin-bottom:8px; text-align: justify;">
Aside from that, I worked on the suite of core microservices. I introduced caching and message-based communication for hosted services to improve their performance. I also developed novel services and features in the backend microservices. In addition to this, I built a package using openTelemetry to enhance developer productivity by introducing tracing-based logging for microservices instead of file-based logging.</p>
<p class="par-color" style="text-align: justify;">
I also led a team, conducting requirement analysis, sprint planning, code reviewing, and successfully delivering several projects. I solved an issue for long tokens generated by the identity management system with dynamic role management. In addition to that, I introduced new methods to onboard users using SSO methods and securely exchange tokens.</p>

<!-- ## News

- **[Feb 2020]** Our paper about incremental learning is accepted to [CVPR 2020](http://cvpr2020.thecvf.com/).
- **[Feb 2020]** We will host the [ACM Multimedia Asia 2020](https://mmasia2020.org/) conference in Singapore!
- **[Sep 2019]** Our paper about few-shot learning is accepted to [NeurIPS 2019](https://nips.cc/Conferences/2019).
- **[Mar 2019]** Our paper about few-shot learning is accepted to [CVPR 2019](http://cvpr2019.thecvf.com/). -->

<h2 class="h2-color" style="margin-bottom:4px"> Publications </h2>
<h4 class="par-color">A Deep Recurrent Neural Network with BiLSTM model for Sentiment Classification </h4>
  <p class="par-color" style="margin : 0"><strong>Abdullah Aziz Sharfuddin</strong>, Md. Nafis Tihami, Md. Saiful Islam.
  <br>
  IEEE Conference Bangla speech and language processing. ICBSLP 2018.</p>
  [[PDF](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8554396)]  <strong><i style="color:#e74d3c">Oral Presentation</i></strong>




<!-- <h2 class="h2-color">Selected Projects</h2> -->
<!-- Projects -->
<h2 class="h2-color" style="margin-top:24px; margin-bottom:4px">Selected Projects</h2>



<h4 class="h2-color" style="margin : 0">e-POS</h4>
<p class="par-color" style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom:8px; text-align: justify;">It is a full-stack web-based POS solution with an administration feature. It was developed with NodeJs to aid gas stations in managing their sales and staff. It featured a role-based access control to ensure inventory and cash register security. It also featured keeping records of loans and an automated notification system for scheduled payments and tasks. </p>


<h4 class="h2-color" style="margin : 0">Lekhoni</h4>
<p class="par-color" style="margin-top: 0; text-align: justify; margin-bottom:8px;">It is an Android app to teach kids how to write Bengali alphabets. It has two modes: guided and unguided. In the guided mode, the app will show an alphabet, and a kid can draw the figure presented on the screen. In unguided mode, a kid can draw an alphabet and get feedback on whether it is written correctly. The feedback is calculated using a pertained OCR model for Bengali alphabets. </p>


<h4 class="h2-color" style="margin : 0">P2P Solution</h4>
<p class="par-color" style="margin-top: 0; text-align: justify; margin-bottom:8px;">It is a peer-to-peer chat and file-sharing desktop app that connects two devices on the same network or devices with public IP, using their IP addresses and designated port numbers. It uses Java Socket to communicate with each other. It used OOP and Software design principles to ensure fast connectivity, data management, and modular system design.</p>


<h4 class="h2-color" style="margin : 0">MediAlert</h4>
<p class="par-color" style="margin-top: 0; text-align: justify;">It is an Android app for medical alerts. You can upload a prescription and your medicine routine. The app will remind you to take medicines on time.</p>


<h2 class="h2-color" style="margin-bottom:4px">Honours & Awards</h2>
  <ul>
    <li class="par-color">Awarded <strong>Best</strong> idea in 3-minute idea presentation at a Bangla symposium, 2019.</li>
    <li class="par-color"><strong>Finalist</strong> among 112 Teams at Robi Datathon, for fintech prediction model, 2019.</li>
    <li class="par-color"> Awarded <strong>first runner-up</strong> for presenting posters for academic research at ICBSLP, 2018.</li>
  </ul>
<!-- ## Selected Talks

- **Learning to Self-Train for Semi-Supervised Few-Shot Classification**
  <br>
  NeurIPS Official Meetups
  <br>
  Beijing, China, December 2019 [[Slides](https://people.mpi-inf.mpg.de/~yaliu/files/learning-to-self-train-slides.pdf)]

- **Multi-Class Incremental Learning**
  <br>
  School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University
  <br>
  Singapore, July 2019 [[Slides](https://people.mpi-inf.mpg.de/~yaliu/files/multi-class-incremental-learning.pdf)]

- **Meta-Transfer Learning for Few-Shot Learning**
  <br>
  School of Computing, National University of Singapore
  <br>
  Singapore, April 2019 [[Slides](https://people.mpi-inf.mpg.de/~yaliu/files/meta-transfer-learning-slides.pdf)]

## Services

- Co-organizer: [ACM MM Asia 2020](https://mmasia2020.org/).
- Conference Reviewers: [NeurIPS 2020](https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2020), and [CVPR 2020](http://cvpr2020.thecvf.com/).
- Journal Reviewers: [T-PAMI](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/RecentIssue.jsp?punumber=34), and [IJCV](https://www.springer.com/journal/11263). -->


<h2 class="h2-color" style="margin-bottom:4px">Test Scores</h2>
<ul>
  <li class="par-color"><strong>GRE(312)</strong> Quant: 165 | Verbal: 147 | AWA: 3.5</li>
  <li class="par-color"><strong> IELTS(7.5)</strong>Listening: 8 | Reading: 8 | Speaking: 7 | Writing: 7</li>
</ul>

